# 11 月的事件清单

## MySql Explain OUT PUT

> SIMPLE – the query is a simple SELECT query without any subqueries or UNIONs
> PRIMARY – the SELECT is in the outermost query in a JOIN
> DERIVED – the SELECT is part of a subquery within a FROM clause
> SUBQUERY – the first SELECT in a subquery
> DEPENDENT SUBQUERY – a subquery which is dependent upon on outer query
> UNCACHEABLE SUBQUERY – a subquery which is not cacheable (there are certain conditions for a query to be cacheable)
> UNION – the SELECT is the second or later statement of a UNION
> DEPENDENT UNION – the second or later SELECT of a UNION is dependent on an outer query
> UNION RESULT – the SELECT is a result of a UNION

> type – how MySQL joins the tables used. This is one of the most insightful fields in the output because it can indicate missing indexes or how the query is written should be reconsidered. Possible values are:

* system – the table has only zero or one row
* const – the table has only one matching row which is indexed. This is the fastest type of join because the table only has to be read once and the column’s value can be treated as a constant when joining other tables.
* eq_ref – all parts of an index are used by the join and the index is PRIMARY KEY or UNIQUE NOT NULL. This is the next best possible join type.
* ref – all of the matching rows of an indexed column are read for each combination of rows from the previous table. This type of join appears for indexed columns compared using = or <=> operators.
* fulltext – the join uses the table’s FULLTEXT index.
* ref_or_null – this is the same as ref but also contains rows with a null value for the column.
* index_merge – the join uses a list of indexes to produce the result set. The key column of EXPLAIN‘s output will contain the keys used.
* unique_subquery – an IN subquery returns only one result from the table and makes use of the primary key.
* index_subquery – the same as unique_subquery but returns more than one result row.
* range – an index is used to find matching rows in a specific range, typically when the key column is compared to a constant using operators like BETWEEN, IN, >, >=, etc.
* index – the entire index tree is scanned to find matching rows.
* all – the entire table is scanned to find matching rows for the join. This is the worst join type and usually indicates the lack of appropriate indexes on the table.


> ref – Shows the columns or constants that are compared to the index named in the key column. MySQL will either pick a constant value to be compared or a column itself based on the query execution plan. You can see this in the example given below.

> Handler_read_*
> Handler_read_first : 读取索引的第一个条目的次数, 数量太大表明多次进行全索引扫描
> Handler_read_key : 通过索引找到数据行的次数, 太大表明充分的使用了索引
> Handler_read_last: 
> Handler_read_next: 

# 时间都去哪里了, 过多的打断让上下文环境的切换导致

# build in -> build into 

使用编程语言的深度, 实现自己的想法



